hey what's up in this video I'm going to
share with you my top nine Instagram
predictions for 2023 and in case we've
never met before hi there my name is
Brock Johnson over the last three years
I've grown my Instagram to over 600 000
followers at a rate of 1 000 followers
per day and I think it's important to
say a thousand followers per day because
while I have had some viral videos my
large following isn't the result of
having a couple videos hit a million
views my following is the result of
consistently showing up sharing reels
every single day and growing my
following at a consistent rate for now
almost three years and what I do for a
living is I help other people grow on
social media and specifically on
Instagram using Instagram reels recently
I looked back at my 2022 predictions and
not to toot my own horn but I was seven
for seven on my predictions from last
year so here are my nine predictions for
2023 and before we jump into these nine
predictions let me just say that these
aren't just wild guesses or shots in the
dark these are based off of studies
research data trends that I've been
noticing and trends that we've been
noticing within our membership community
of over 10 10 000 students and some of
these things are direct hints or clues
that have been dropped along the way
from Instagram CEO and other Instagram
staff my first prediction is a big jump
in the overall level of quality
specifically for video content on
Instagram in 2020 and 2021 we were brand
new to reels on Instagram and so
anything that you posted was likely
going to do pretty well and the
expectations were really low in 2022
that bar was raised a little bit and so
by the end of 2022 we started to see
that the only reels that would do well
were the ones that were produced well
and now when I say produced well I don't
mean that they're perfect they're
photoshopped they're highly edited and
they're no longer authentic what I do
mean though is that the lighting is good
the microphone quality is there and that
they just meet a certain standard of
expectation that we all have for reals
after now almost three years of using
them and so my prediction for 2023 is
that we're going to see this increase
even more and so some tangible ways that
you can increase the quality of your
reels without losing authenticity or
without making them feel super perfect
and Polished is to get a microphone
maybe get a lighting set up maybe invest
in some editing software or a full-time
editor who's going to edit your reels
for you by no means am I saying your
reels have to be perfect or have to be a
home run every single time and
definitely we're still going to be
seeing reels that go viral that are very
low quality but I think overall if you
want to maintain a consistent level of
Engagement you're going to have to up
level the quality of your reels my
second prediction for 2023 is that we're
going to see less engagement on Trends
but the second part of this prediction
is that we're going to see more
Instagram specific Trends and the early
adopters of those Trends are going to
reap the most benefits so let me break
down this prediction first of all lower
engagement overall on Trends trending
content is a great way to dip your toe
in the water and start practicing
creating more reels trending audios are
a great way for you to capitalize on the
success of other creators and what what
they've made and at the beginning of
2022 people were having wild success
simply recreating trends that other
people were doing but by the end of 2022
we started to see that these Trends were
losing popularity they were quickly
becoming oversaturated and overdone and
a lot of people in fact these Trends
were quickly becoming overdone and
oversaturated and people were feeling
kind of bored with seeing the same Trend
over and over in fact according to my
recent polls people prefer original
audios four times more than they prefer
a trending remake I also think that as
more people start to use and post reels
and more people get on Tick Tock they
start to see the same Trends over and
over again and so the shelf life of a
trend is much faster basically what that
means is the length of time that a trend
is trending is getting shorter so what
does this mean for you as a Creator or
business owner it means that you want to
get out ahead of the trend you want to
be one of the first people to recreate
the sound before 17 million other people
have also already made so what does this
mean for you as a business owner or
Creator it means you want to to get out
ahead of the trend you want to get out
ahead of the wave before 15 000 other
people also do the same Trend with all
of this being said though I do think
we're also going to see more trends that
are specific to Instagram in 2022 and
2021 a lot of the trending audios and
just popular content on Instagram
originated on Tick Tock people would
create Trends or things would blow up on
Tick Tock and then a few days or even
weeks later they would make their way
over to Instagram and gain popularity
over on Instagram however in 2023 I
think we're going to start to see more
Trends and original content that's
created right on Instagram and that's
going to allow people to be more
creative and more original without just
copying what they're seeing on Tick Tock
my third prediction revolves around
direct message Automation and it's
another two-part prediction part one of
my third prediction is the direct
message automation is going to become
much more widespread and heavily used
direct message automation was something
that people started to use in 2022 but I
think it's going to become much more
widespread and much more common practice
for almost all business owners and
creators in 2023 that's not to say that
all business owners and creators will
use DM automation but they will at least
be aware of it and a lot more people
will start to implement DM automation
into their business the second part of
my third prediction is that for business
owners who are trying to make sales and
grow their customer base on Instagram DM
automation is going to be a major
Catalyst for success
and I say this because as more people
start to use DM Automation and recognize
its capabilities and Powers there's
going to be a real big divide between
people who are sticking with old school
sales techniques like saying Lincoln bio
or click the link in my stories and the
new wave of people trying to make sales
on Instagram which are saying direct
message me this keyword or people who
are able to send automated messages and
links and polls and stickers right in
the DMS there are so many more tools and
features available for people who are
using DM Automation and I think that the
business owners who recognize those
tools and start to use them will reap
the most rewards and have the biggest
success in 2023. my fourth prediction is
that the Instagram algorithm and I'm
specifically referring to the feed
algorithm will be prioritizing content
that has a high watch rate over any
other kind of Engagement now for years
we've known that Instagram and really
all social networks value top more than
anything else and top stands for time on
platform YouTube Tick Tock Twitter
Instagram they all value how long are
you keeping your viewers on the platform
and if people are spending more time
consuming your content then they're
spending more time on the platform and
so these algorithms want to push you out
to more people we've known that for
years but the way that the algorithm has
determined time on platform in the past
has been primarily by looking at other
metrics so in the past the algorithm has
looked at how many likes you're getting
how many saves you're getting how many
comments you're getting how long are
those comments how many shares are your
posts getting and those metrics would
help the algorithm determine how
successful your post was at keeping
people engaged however people have
started to gamify this system they
started to get tons of likes and tons of
saves in a super short amount of time
but it's not necessarily resulting in
people spending more time with their
content it's very easy to have someone
like your post quickly press the save
button and keep scrolling Without Really
spending that much time engaging with
your content so my prediction for 2023
is that the algorithm is going to still
value those other metrics but it's
really going to focus on watch time view
duration how long are people actually
watching your reel how much time are
people actually spending with your
carousels and your other feed posts and
one of the clues that Instagram is going
to be really focusing on this is that
they've started testing allowing us the
users the creators to see what our
average watch time is and see what the
average viewers view duration is and so
this tells me that Instagram is going to
start prioritizing this metric and they
want us to be aware of it so that we can
increase it ourselves my fifth
prediction is more remixes if you don't
know what a remix is it is basically
Instagram's version of a duet over on
Tick Tock also known as a stitch over on
Tick Tock it's basically where you can
add on to the end of someone else's reel
or you can kind of do a side by side
with someone else's reel during 2022
Instagram began testing the ability to
remix not on reels and I believe that
will be more widespread in 2023 and in
recent weeks we've even seen that
Instagram is pushing us to remix more
people's reels to send reels to other
people and encourage them to remix and
Instagram CEO even said that one of
their main goals for 2023 is to inspire
people to be more creative and to spark
connections and conversations around
content and I believe a major way
they're going to do this is with remixes
remixes are a great way to create
community and a sense of belonging and
conversation around content and I think
we're going to see a lot more of them on
Instagram in 2023 my sixth prediction
for Instagram in this coming year is an
increased sense of community and an
increased value placed on community
Instagram has hinted that this is the
direction they're headed in in two ways
number one in their 2023 Trend report
they predicted that Community is going
to be a central driving force for 2023
so that should tell you all you need to
know but number two Instagram is working
on a new feature called group profiles
where multiple people are going to be
able to post on one single profile and
all of these things just suggest that
Community matters on Instagram and
really that's what a lot of people say
that they feel like they're missing on
Instagram they're missing a sense of
deep connection with their friends and
family who they're seeing post and
instead they're just getting vague
wishy-washy vanilla content from
businesses and creators and so I think
one way that Instagram is going to bring
these deeper more substantial
connections back to the platform is
through a sense of community rather than
trying to go wide and reach millions and
millions of people I believe that a true
growth hack for 2023 is building a deep
sense of community on your profile my
seventh prediction and this one should
be a fun one is that artificial
intelligence is going to be used a lot
more heavily for Content production at
the end of 2022 we saw the viral success
of chat GPT as well as Dolly 2 and
multiple other Integrations such as
canva even using artifact official
intelligence to help creators create
more content create better content
create more sustainable content and I
think we're going to see that really
widespread in 2023. my eighth prediction
for 2023 is that SEO search engine
optimization is going to become a real
Central component for growth on
Instagram Instagram and Tick Tock are
quickly replacing even Google for how
heavily they are used to search for and
find things and the discoverability of
your Instagram account and even your
content is something that Instagram
began testing and improving in 2022. in
2023 I think that we might even see
hashtags becoming a complete thing of
the past an obsolete way to grow and
instead keywords and search engine
optimization becoming a central growth
component and factor for your Instagram
account we've seen hints at this with
the test of reels topic if you're not
sure what that is I did a YouTube video
in the past you can find it linked
somewhere up here about what reels
topics are but essentially they're kind
of like hashtags used to be for for your
content it's a way to communicate with
the algorithm and tell the algorithm
here's what my content is here's what
it's about and here's whom you should
show my content to so I think that in
2023 we're going to see SEO become even
more prevalent widespread and heavily
used on Instagram my ninth and final
prediction for Instagram in 2023 is more
authentic genuine real content people
want to be told stories people want to
be able to connect with those they're
following we've even seen a study that
showed that 40 of people want to hear a
podcast from the people they follow that
shows that they want more connection
more vulnerability they want more of you
being you more of you talking to the
camera being yourself not just copying
Trends not just lip syncing and pointing
at text on the screen but actually
showing us who you are your values your
beliefs and What Makes You tick so lean
into that in 2023 start to be yourself
start to post more reels more original
content don't just rely on trends that
you're seeing on Tick Tock and that
other people are doing doing on
Instagram start creating your own
original authentic content with your own
voice telling your own stories and
ultimately your Instagram will reap the
benefits because of it I would love to
hear what you think though let me know
down in the comments what your
predictions for 2023 are is there
anything that I missed on this list or
anything from my list of nine
predictions that you think especially
stands out and is going to be a serious
change on Instagram in 2023. thank you
so much for watching and if you haven't
already please consider pressing that
like button and the Subscribe button so
you can see more content just like this
every single week on this channel I put
out educational videos about how to grow
your following how to build an online
presence and an income from your social
media